hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day a while back on the
smarter every day subreddit someone made
a post that said something like no one
ever believes that I can talk backwards
this caught my eye and I watched the
video and it was fascinating it's a
skill this guy has clearly worked very
very hard on if you remember in the
backwards bicycle video when I was first
learning if I had a phone in my pocket
that rang when I was trying to do it he
would break that skill instantly and I
would no longer be able to steer it's
really curious how the brain works I
asked this guy if he would come to
Alabama and basically become a human
test subject and let me try to test the
limits of this skill I'm really excited
because he actually accepted by invite
and today I'm smarter every day we're
gonna get to test someone's brain trying
to talk backwards let's do it this is
Kurt Quinn and uh is a talent or a skill
I think it's a skill a skill that you
can acquire I think it's something that
yeah okay so Kurt can do this thing he
can talk backwards and I have questions
so first I want to demonstrate the skill
okay and then I'm gonna put you in
stranger and stranger situations until I
see if I can break it so my brain yeah
how many words can you start with uh let
start with one word and gradually work
up okay is that okay really yeah that's
how it works yeah because it really it
after a while it gets easier and easier
as I as I do it okay let's start with
this okay banjo was NAB was nabbed what
is NAB
okay man jump okay say uh I'm in Alabama
with a banjo Wilma can't get your banjo
sure okay go ahead move my underwear off
it okay I'm an Alabama with a banjo on
my mind Alabama with the Mangum eeny
aamna was never through an abalone em
yah this is bizarre dude
I'm in Alabama with a banjo on my knee
I'm impressed
okay okay I know this is kind of strange
but there is a method to my madness I'm
going to start simple by just
demonstrating the skill and then slowly
ramp up the weirdness with animals
eventually I want to see if I can
completely task saturating by doing
different kinds of distractions and just
see what his brain does as a reaction
you ever held a chicken no I haven't
Nick Ishta need what Mia I'm holding a
chicken this cat's name is Ganymede
demon AG z Mian Geist active this as his
name is Nana me ship dirty fishbowl love
ship he turd Suresh mo o shit eater
hey he has 50 animals and none of them I
have to hold 50 of 50 animals bunny
rabbit Tiberi nub on you rabbit
God is that how it works yeah okay uh my
dog's name is buckshot Tosh cub zip Mian
he's got Yama my guys name is work shot
when I started to think about the
physics of speech I started to gain a
much deeper appreciation for the
algorithm that his brain has created
think about it this way in the English
alphabet there are 26 letters but in the
international phonetic alphabet there
are 107 letters if you think about that
it's not that he's actually reading the
letters of a word backwards he has to
phonetically recreate the sounds of
those letters are making backwards okay
I think this might be awkward but I
think it's worth it think about your
mouth as a control volume you have a
tongue inside and you have teeth in the
interaction between your tongue and your
teeth restrict and allow airflow in
certain directions
on the outside you have lips that can
hold back pressure and then they can
release that pressure all at once to
appreciate what his brain is doing you
have to understand that there's some
physical sounds you can't make backwards
for example plosives plosives are where
you pressurize the inside of your mouth
and you briefly let it go for example
pooh-bah CUH CUH CUH duh
those are plosives the fact that you can
create those backwards is very strange
because if you look at a spectrogram of
those sounds you have this very sharp
spike where the sound starts and then
this release of air PAH bah gah gah tah
in order for us to hear what he's saying
backwards he has to fake a plosive
because you can't instantly like in a
matter of milliseconds repressurize air
and make it sound good so he has tricks
that he's using to make it sound like a
duh PAH tah is really interesting
for example the CH sound backwards is
just can you can you do it while you
play your banjo I've never tried say
rainbow
[Music]
because are super hard okay yeah I'm
gonna tell you to rolling well oh man
okay so was it harder yeah okay what's
what would your brain do in there now I
felt good while I was doing this song
that I've played a million times and
then you threw the word in and then my
brain just forgot about this
that's interest is this embarrassing to
you I mean a little what is it why does
it bother you that you didn't get it
right this isn't like a challenge yeah
it is what is it yeah right what are we
doing if not trying to do it right okay
never coming is like I could see the
gears go here
okay the grand finale my friends Jared
and Daniel wanted to help me come up
with a situation that would completely
task saturate his mind so this video
that you're about to see starts
immediately after the safety brief which
is when he understood that there were
going to be two rifles on each side of
him firing at an array of bottles in the
field while a drone is hovering overhead
recording the whole event it was really
fun but one thing I find super
interesting is that the sound of the a K
as it fires is just like a plosive it's
the rapid release of pressurized gas so
when we play it backwards
think about that gas repressurizing and
that's what a plosive sound sounds like
when played in Reverse so Jared and
Daniel are going to be going after these
bottles I'm going to be yelling words at
you okay
alright so first word is ready here hey
yeah
fire hurry up okay a k70 yeah yeah the
drone is decisioning you just mid zit
norge done so lobby them you I am from
California I knew all of check marks
yeah
bottles there's a lot but do I you rock
okay clear the weapons alright put the
weapons down
I'll never load McCloud welcome to a
little bad luck isn't about the gear up
snip a little kick REI with a bubble
sort o blue
[Music]
we had many vowels Joan is hey MIT ready
okay that was a super fun video and I
just wanted to show you that we have
ducks as well we really like animals
anyway today's sponsor is who I want to
say thank you to and that is audible we
uh we have a book that we've been
reading together don't wait what is it
Harry Potter I know you're in Chapter
aren't you in Chapter nine maybe maybe
anyway you go you kidding you on there
uh what we're gonna talk about it a
little bit later you're in Chapter
eleven awesome
so here's the deal I use audible to stay
relevant in my kids lives he likes to
read I want to encourage that he enjoys
Harry Potter so what I'm doing is even
though I don't have a lot of time on my
way to work I am listening to the Harry
Potter book so that when I come home at
night I have something I can relate to
with my son Kenneth can you do the
pirate thing he is in the second book
now and I am listening to the same books
that he does just because I want to be
able to have intelligent conversations
with my eight-year-old anyway
audible.com slash smarter is the way you
can get a free trial and that would
really get big help for smarter every
day in all seriousness please consider
supporting smarter every day by going to
audible.com/smarter and getting a free
trial as you can see from my son's face
he really enjoys the fact that I'm
staying relevant with him anyway also
Kurt wanted to tell you the URL
backwards so that you can remember it
trongs shall mock toddle bah da ah the
blue dog come / not sure yet your tray
dang it
yet your vet your Trump's smarter every
day it's so silly but it feels so good
isn't it yeah it's so satisfying if you
don't see some of Kurt Quinn's skills
this is smarter every day he's got his
own YouTube channel it's Kurt Kurt Quinn
yeah he's got some really interesting
skills this one is pretty cool but I
think my favorite is the fact that you
are a world record banjo player yeah I
hold the world record for the world's
fastest banjo player I love that video
who's even go check that out
please consider subscribing he would
never say that he actually don't even
say that on your channel do you
sometimes I say Bjork's bus okay anyway
check it out and you can be arks bus if
we're never taken what anyway I really
appreciate your time and you're gonna
stick around a podcast with us yeah okay
cool if you want to hear us talk to Kurt
Quinn on our podcast no dumb questions
I'll leave a link to that as well so I
think that's it anything else no thanks
man all right it's awesome thank you
very much boom have a good one
yob what does that mean bye alright
backwards bike give it a shot
so when your brain clicks into backwards
talking mode is it like a click that
happens or no well maybe yeah cuz when I
could I what after I do it for a while I
warm up yeah it's easier no it was like
when you same thing give it a shot
click